Update Post on 3.0 (#38)
indico/indico.github.io: _posts/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news.md

categories: indico release
---

It's with great pleasure that we announce **Indico 3.0**. It is a very important milestone in the history of the Project. Two ground-breaking developments happened during these last months, one of them very visible, while the other one not directly noticeable but nonetheless of vital importance.
But lets get to it!

> note ""

> > The full change log can be found [here](https://github.com/indico/indico/blob/204703afba8e93c7b5bfff02a8880b94615e1956/CHANGES.rst).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The full change log can be found [here](https://docs.getindico.io/en/stable/changelog/#version-3-0).
```

In the past categories were restricted to contain either events or subcategories. This is no longer the case; any category may now contain a mix of both events and subcategories. To ease the transition for category managers, the update restricts event creation in all categories that have subcategories, so by default only category managers will be able to create events in those categories.

## Personal Tokens

The old API key system is now considered obsolete and will be gradually replaced by a more standard "bearer tokens". Users can now have more than one authentication token, normally one per app. Furthermore, the scope of tokens can be limited to specific parts of the app. This limits the consequences of a token being exposed and means that in the worst case scenario you will only have to regenerate a single token and won't need to change the configuration of any other applications using the Indico API.

Detailed documentation on how to authenticate using this new scheme can be found [here](https://docs.getindico.io/en/stable/http-api/access/#api-token-authentication).

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_af8e221d1d112c6bc7f33d5ffc58724f.png)

> warning ""

> > The legacy API key authentication system is not only **less safe**, it will be **eventually discontinued**. Please make sure that you migrate your applications to Bearer tokens.

Reviewer: "safe" vs "secure"?

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_499ab57c93f0fbccdf15a37eca97167e.png)

## Quality of Life improvements

### Send reminders to event speakers

> contribution "Community Contribution"
> Feature kindly contributed by [@Naveenaidu](https://github.com/Naveenaidu)

You can now also mail event speakers automatically.

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_d8b0ea8dcfde6e1a36de7949aeba1889.png)

### Better signaling of timetable in "draft mode"

Many users found the "Draft" switch above the list of contributions a little too discrete.

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_9ac835d658778f4c2c98986508fd62a5.png)

### More structured information on papers under review

It is now much easier to understand the current state of a paper.

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_bccb355cc1d80bbf5f7e2df10bd6d53d.png)

### Information about outdated versions (Administrators)

Indico will now display system notices which inform administrators about important things such as security problems or outdated Python/Postgres versions.

![](/assets/2021-05-24-indico-3-0-news/upload_ca7b1de9dd0771748d8bbab979b63ca1.png)

### CLI to create event series (Administrators)

> The `indico event create-series` now allows Indico administrators to easily associate events into series. A full-fledged UI accessible to managers is foreseen for the future.

Reviewer: +cli
